Let's create a project.
We have more slides to see later.
So again,
let me start with Android Studio and
I will finally use VS Code for
the rest of the day.
So I will show how to create the project
in both platforms, in both IDs.
So I will create one in Android Studio and
then one in VS Code.
You pick the ID you want.
In Android Studio if you
have installed the plug in,
you can create a new
Flutter project from here.
The Flutter project will
ask you first the SDK path.
Remember, the SDK is a big C file that
you have downloaded in the morning.
And if everything works,
it will ask me for a project name.
It's not going to be my final project
because I will use VS Code for that, so
we'll reach out to FlutterDemo.
Well, Description, Project Type,
yeah, we wanna create an application.
Organisation, this is asking for
a package name.
Actually, when you're publishing
apps In App Stores these days,
you have to define a Package ID or
a Package Name.
That's a string that is mandatory on every
app and it's going to be the primary key
that will uniquely identify your app in
the operating system and in the App Store.
And how can we guarantee you,
how can we have better probability
of not making conflicts with
other developers in the world?
How can we guarantee that we
are not using the same name?
We use the website of our company or
our own website in reverse order.
So actually Frontend Masters,
I can do something like this, or
in my case, I can use my own website.
And the idea is that no one else is
owning the same name in the world,
so technically,
no one can actually use that.
And then it will attach to
that the name of your project.
So the final package name
will be com.frontendmasters,
I cannot say workshops
something like that.
I mean it doesn't need the DNS, it
doesn't need to exist to make that work,
it's just a string.
So the final name will be
comfrontendmastersworship.flutterdemo, and
that will be must be unique in your
operating system and within the store.
So you will pick the Android language that
you want the project to be created because
actually it doesn't mentioned this, but
when you create a Flutter application and
you want to compile for
Android, it creates an Android Studio
project internally.
So it's asking you for that project,
do you want to use Java or Kotlin?
Kotlin is the modern Android version,
so typically we select Kotlin and for
iOS, By the way, you wont see iOS if
you're on a Mac on the Windows or Linux,
if you're on a Mac, you will see iOS.
I can pick Objective-C or Swift.
Again, this is internal code in
case you need to get later and
add more stuff, that typically is
not needed for the first demo.
I'm going pick Swift as well.
I can send it here if I
want the web as well.
And Linux, Macros and Windows need another
plugin, so that's why it's disabled by
default, but you can add more platforms
from the common line interface later.
So if you pick web,
it's going to target also the web, okay?
Great project offline will actually
download everything and make you compile
and do everything offline because it's
not you will need connection, okay?
Because every time you compile, it is
checking if there is a new version, so
you wanna make the project
offline be fine and finish.
And if you look here, I'm getting
an error saying, Invalid module name.
So what's going on here?
Flutter supports only
the snake case names for
the project and for our files, so
the project cannot be
FlutterDemo like this.
I need to use Flutter_demo.
Make sense?
So this is mandatory,
it's not going to work if not.
And by the way,
it's a good idea to have the SDK
in a folder in your device without spaces.
So if the footpath has no spaces,
the same happens with other SDKs
that you might be downloading.
So instead of downloading this in
in your main Windows, in C colon,
my space programmes, no,
use myprogrammes without spaces.
So store the Flutter SDK In
a folder without spaces, okay?
To avoid the issues with
the command line interface.
Okay, finish and this is actually
creating the Flutter project.
We will see the files that we have
here in a minute so no worries.
What I want to show you first
is that at the top we have
a section that says, No device selector.
And when you click there,
you can actually see Chrome Web,
Open iOS Simulator, or Refresh, okay?
And here main.dart.
And actually, also here it's Android.
This says pixel 4 with Play Store, okay?
But anyway, I can open now Chrome web,
iOS Simulator or Android Emulators.
So if I select Chrome Web and
I hit Run, my Flutter app will appear.
The first time you open
your Flutter application,
you run your Flutter
application in a platform, Web,
Android or iOS, it takes some time, okay?
And to be honest on Android,
it takes minutes and
sometimes it can take up to half an hour.
So be careful with that because it happens
that the first time you run your app,
because it needs to download more
Android requirements that sometimes it's
500 megabytes.
The problem is that sometimes you're
downloading that from a server that is Is
like busy, and it takes real time and you
don't get the feedback in the meantime,
you say, Okay what's going on?
Well, be patient.
And this is the default code that we
receive here, it's actually a working app.
You can click on the browser,
so this is a website, okay?
And you can click in the button and
you see the number in the middle,
that's what you have as
your default project, okay?
So you you're right here and
then you press the play button,
at the bottom is actually saying that,
Flutter supports hot reload.
So that means that if you make a change
in this file for example here it says,
Flutter demo homepage,
I say, Frontend Masters.
We will understand this in a minute,
but if I change something, and I save
Cmd+S on a Mac, Ctrl+S, now I go back to
Chrome and it says, Frontend Masters.
So I don't need to recompile,
I don't need to rerun, so
I don't need to wait another half
an hour in the case of Android.
I just can keep my emulator, or my phone
or whatever I'm using as my target running
and everything I'm changing is
really quick, it's a hot reload.
This is actually something that
if you're a web developer,
probably you're used to this,
to a live reload, right?
You'll save and
you'll see immediately the changes.
So, that's actually brand
new on the mobile space.
So I've been a mobile developer for 20
years, and actually it is the first time
with Flutter, that we can actually
have a real live reload system,
that you make a change and you can
immediately see that changing your phone.
So before that on any platform,
even modern iOS, modern Android,
typically you need to recompile,
that takes seconds and
sometimes minutes to actually
get the result on your phone.
With Flutter, this actually cool,
this is actually a really high
performance solution that is also
highly efficient for developing, okay?
It's actually pretty cool,
okay, make sense?
So that how you work roughly
with Android Studio.